
	test/system/README			Erik Kluzek

	Directory with test scripts for the stand-alone atmospheric
	model. These are designed as tests that are expected to
	be run before a model commit is made.

     I. How to use:
	1.) Useful Environment variables to set.
    II. Testing strategy:
	All.) Test with trace-gas.
	0.) Test with bounds-checking on (DEBUG option set to TRUE).
           (Do this both with SPMD on and off and verify that answers same)
	1.) Restarts are bit-for-bit (and change decomposition).
	2.) Compare restart comparison to previous version.
	3.) Error growth test.
	4.) Compare to previous version. (with error growth on)
	5.) Adiabatic mode on and off.
   III. Script strategy:

     I. How to use:

	On the platform you want to test run the script "test-model.pl".

	perl test-model.pl -l lab -c old-cam-src-dir

	Note, "old-cam-src-dir" is a optional command-line argument.
	Specifying it gives the path to the directory for the old source 
	code to compare this source to.

	"-l lab" is also an optional command line argument that gives the
	lab you are running at. This is useful in setting up the default
	values to run with. The default lab is "NCAR". Default values for
	other labs are also setup.

	Use the "-r" option to restart where the script left off last. Use
	"-s" to only do a subset of the tests. Use "-dirty" so that it
	won't clean directories before and after compiling and running.
	This is useful when you want testing to go faster and you've already
	run through several passes.

	The script produces error growth comparison files that can be
	plotted with "cam1/modelss/atm/cam/bld/graphgrowth.csh". This can be used to assess
	changes that change answers on the order of machine accuracy.
	It can also be used to verify a port to a different machine.

	Preferably, run the above script on several different platforms.
	Notably, SGI-2000, IBM-SP, and Compaq. Sun and Linux may be
	tested as well.

	1.) Useful Environment variables to set.

	LAB = The lab you are running at (ncar,nersc,dao,ornl)
	CSMDATA = Location of the datafiles 
			(with atm/cam1, lnd/lsm1 and lnd/clm2 subdirectories)
	SPMD = If you want to run in SPMD mode (TRUE or FALSE).
	SHMEM_CPUS = Number of Open-MP shared memory CPU's you'd like to use.
	SPMD_NODES = Number of MPI distributed nodes you'd like to use.
       PHYSICS = The physics directory to use physics or phys366, default physics)
       LANDMODEL = The Land model to use CLM2 or LSM1, default LSM1.

    II. Testing strategy:

	The test-script runs the following tests for each dynamics 
	(Eulerian, Semi-Lagrangian, and Lin-Rood). Eulerian and SLD
	are run at a fairly low resolution of T21 with 18 levels. Lin-Rood
	is run at a 4x5 degree resolution with 18 levels. In both cases
	the resolution is deemed high enough to do a reasonable test, but
	low enough to give a faster turnaround.

	All.) Test with trace-gas.

	All tests are run with "trace_gas" set to true so that
	code handling multiple constituents will be checked.

	0.) First run a few time-steps with the DEBUG flag set to true.
	This runs with the debug option on and turns bounds checking on
	and other features needed for debugging. Some compilers are flaky
       when using bounds checking (notably the IBM and SGI), so other compilers
       will have to be used for bounds checking.

	This test is also run in two-parts. It's run with and without SPMD-mode
       turned on, and the answers are compared to ensure that SPMD and non-SPMD
       both give identical answers.

	1.) Restarts are bit-for-bit (and change decomposition).

	Both of these tests are run at the same time. If the test fails
	it could be due to a problem in either the change in PE's or
	with restarts.

	a.) Test restarts

 	Restarts are done at an odd time so that both history and abs/ems 
	restart datasets will be produced. The restart test is also ran
	with a different number of nodes than the initial run to ensure
	that restarts don't depend on the parallel domain decomposition.

	b.) Changing the domain decomposition.

	This is done by subtracting one from the previous number of shared 
	memory CPU's used, and dividing the number of SPMD nodes by two.

	Testing mode for 1 and 2.
	
	The above is done with full-physics and error growth turned off so 
	the production mode of the model is extensively checked.

	2.) Compare restart comparison to previous version.

	Now if the "-c" option is used the control library is run with the
	same configuration as the last restart test in the list of tests
	above. The answers are compared to the above test and stored in the
	"conf*.cprout" file. At the end of the test all of the control
	tests will be examined to see if the results are bit-for-bit with
	the previous library. If so the script will mention this fact, if not
	a WARNING message is printed as well. If answers are different the user
	will have to assess if this is acceptable and may examine the *.cprout
	to decide if the changes are within roundoff of the previous library.
	
	3.) Error growth test.

	Next the error growth test is done, running with a perturbation
	of zero and roundoff level (1.e-14). This ensures that the perturbation
	test can at least run. This test is done with DEBUG set to FALSE so
	that the test will run as fast as possible and to ensure that both
	DEBUG on and off works. 

	The results of this test need to be plotted after the test is done
	by using the "cam1/models/atm/cam/bld/graphgrowth.csh" utility. To compare to a 
	previous model version you will have to run the test-suite for
	the previous model version as well and use "cprnc" to compare the
	two.

	4.) Compare to previous version.

	Finally, if the "-c" command-line argument is given the results for 
	the error growth test with a perturbation of zero is compared to the
	results for a perturbation of zero with the previous source code (given
	after the "-c" option). Results can be compared to the error growth
	profile produced to determine if they are roundoff.

	If "-c" is NOT given, but it was previously and the files are still
	available -- it still does the comparison.

	5.) Adiabatic mode on and off.

	The last two tests (3 and 3) are run both with adiabatic mode ON
	and OFF. This ensures that the model works in both modes.

   III. Script strategy:

	The script "test-model.pl" takes advantage of scripts and Perl
	modules setup in the "cam/models/atm/cam/bld" directory to configure, build
	and run the model. As such the script is relatively short.

